Palestinians are marking 76 years since
the neba when they were forcibly
displaced from their Homeland and the
state of Israel was created more than
750,000 people were evicted from their
homes and now Palestinians are facing a
new catastrophe Israeli forces are
pushing deeper into gaza's North and
South as some of the most intense
fighting in weeks rages on and it's
forced more than
450,000 Palestinians to flee from the
south of the strip the US is set to send
Israel a new weapons package worth a
billion dollars more than a billion
dollars if it's approved by Congress and
this comes after President Joe Biden
delayed a shipment of bombs earlier this
month over concerns about the rising
civilian death toll in Gaza well we can
now speak to Gerson Basin who's the
Middle East director at the NGO the
international communities organization
he's also a former hostage negotiator
joining us from West Jerusalem thanks
for your time um let me first ask you
about this development out of the US I
mean how do you explain the Biden
Administration intending to move forward
with this more than1 billion doll
weapons package to Israel after Biden
saying that he would suspend the
delivery of some weapons this was last
week I mean is this a U-turn and if so
why it seems like it is a U-turn and
it's probably explainable by the
election clock ticking faster for Biden
as he was criticized very strongly from
Friends of Israel both both in the
fundamentalist Christian groups and in
the Israel support lobbies in
Washington and and a significant amount
of criticism from the Republican
party it it probably caused Biden to
rethink his decision to withhold the
shipments of bombs to Israel and it is
very
strange look I mean even we heard from
the US deputy secretary state Kurt
Campbell earlier this week saying that
total victory in Gaza is unlikely for
the Israelis but the Israelis they just
seem to be committed to keep going on I
mean whether it's an occupation or an
invasion it's either option is not
really turning out to be a good one for
Israel what direction do you think
they'll they'll go to
next I think that we have a government
in Israel that's lost in its direction
it has slogans that it's made at the
beginning of the war it has put its war
effort goals in front of the goals of
returning the hostages we have a severe
situation now with no end game
no political endgame and no way to bring
the 132 Israeli hostages home for Gaza
Hamas is set as a red line the end of
the war and Israel has set as a red line
any agreement that does not end the war
and we seem to have an unbridgeable Gap
with both the Qatari and Egyptian
mediators having second thoughts now
about their willingness and ability to
mediate under the conditions that have
been created I mean you're a former
negotiator of course so when you look at
the effect offensives that the Israelis
are pushing it through in Gaza the more
Netanyahu pushes on is he trying to gain
more leverage in any ceasefire
negotiations whenever they may
be yeah there is some belief within the
Israeli military and the Israeli
government that only military pressure
will release the hostages the reality
over the last seven months has shown us
that military pressure is getting the
hostages killed there doesn't seem to be
anything that backs up the theory that
military pressure will work to bring the
hostages home
but it seems to me that the ultimate
goal of natany and his government is to
find the Hamas leadership underground in
Gaza and to kill them and that would be
their Victory picture after that they
could be more flexible on negotiations
it seems to me that as long as yir and
Muhammad Dave far alive it's unlikely
that nany is going to Signal his
willingness to change course let me ask
you about uh uh today in particular May
15th theba of course 76 years of
displacement for the Palestinians you've
said that the Palestinians are
witnessing a more dramatic situation
this time than the time of the neba tell
us why you think that
is well I think that they are in fact
reliving the NBA of 1948 which they have
been reliving every day since
1948 and during the last seven months
it's been even more dramatic because the
weapons are so much more deadly than
they were in 1948 The Continuous bombing
the relocation of people three four five
times with within the Gaza Strip with no
place to go um every Palestinian in Gaza
in the occupied territories in East
Jerusalem in the Palestinian diaspora
watches TV every day and sees the
suffering of their people and relieves
the trauma of the nakba I think I think
it's very live for people if people
could have looked forward and thought
perhaps there is a way out of this NBA
it seems to be ongoing with no ins no
end inside okay we'll leave it there
gersan Basin thank you so much for
speaking to us from West
Jerusalem thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al